Topic

In modern systems the classical modelling paradigm that uses static graphs may be restrictive or oversimplifying, as the interactions among the elementary system units can change over time in a highly dynamic manner. For example, friendships are added and removed over time in a social network and links in communication networks may change dynamically, either according to a specific known pattern (satellites following a trajectory) or in an unpredictable manner (mobile ad hoc networks). The common characteristic in all these application areas is that the system structure, i.e., graph topology, is subject to discrete changes over time. In such dynamically changing graphs, the notion of vertex adjacency needs to be revisited and various graph concepts, e.g., reachability and connectedness, now crucially depend on the exact temporal ordering of the edges' presence.

A temporal graph is a graph that changes over time. Assuming discrete time and a fixed set V of vertices, a temporal graph can be viewed as a discrete sequence G1, G2, ... of static graphs, each with vertex set V. Many notions and algorithms from the static case can be naturally transferred in a meaningful way to their temporal counterpart, while in other cases new approaches are needed to define the appropriate temporal notions. In particular, some problems become radically different and substantially more difficult when the time dimension is additionally taken into account.

In this one-day workshop, recent advances in the area of temporal / dynamically changing graphs will be presented, as well as some of the key challenges will be highlighted. This research area is growing with a broadening community interested in temporal graph aspects, so our aim is to bring together people from both theoretical and practical communities of temporal graphs to establish new and strengthen existing links between these communities.

The topic of the workshop is of high interest and relevance to ICALP track A, as it mainly focuses on algorithms, computational complexity, and it can also straddle to parameterized complexity, structural graph theory, combinatorial optimization, distributed and mobile computing, as well as randomness in computation.

Some (almost half) of the presentations are given by invitation only, while the remaining presentations will be contributed talks. Everyone is welcome to register and attend (either physically or online).